Hadash/add repeater files (#3381)
wix-incubator/wix-code-docs: js-wixcode-sdk/$w/repeater/guides/The Lifecycle of Repeated Items.md

---
articleType: concept
---
# The Lifecycle of Repeated Items

When you work with a [repeater](https://dev.wix.com/docs/velo/velo-only-apis/$w/repeater/introduction) in code, it's important to understand how the items in the repeater are created, updated, and deleted. 

## Connect data

A repeater's data is an array of objects, which you get or set using the repeater's `data` property. Each object in this array must have a unique `_id` property that links the object to a specific repeated item in the repeater. The `_id` value can include only alphanumeric characters and hyphens (`-`). Besides `_id`, each object in the data array can include any other properties you need.

> The repeater doesn't automatically connect data in the elements inside each repeated item. You control how to connect data in those elements by using the `onItemReady()`, `onItemRemoved()`, `forItems()`, and `forEachItem()` callback functions.

Reviewer: I think the use of "populate" here is better. Then we are using "connect" for setting data and "populate" for displaying that data.

```suggestion
The repeater doesn't automatically populate its data into the elements inside each repeated item. You control how to populate the data into those elements by using the `onItemReady()`, `onItemRemoved()`, `forItems()`, and `forEachItem()` callback functions.
```

> ### Example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example

Connect 2 items to a repeater.
```

```javascript
const data = [
  { _id: "1", name: "Alice" },
  { _id: "2", name: "Bob" }
];

$w.onReady(function () {
  $w('#myRepeater').data = data;

>   $w('#myRepeater').onItemReady(($item, itemData) => {

Reviewer: Let's add a black link above this to separate the setting of the data and the onItemReady. Actually, I might put the onItemReady first because it is like the setup to setting the data.

    $item('#nameText').text = itemData.name;
  });
});
```

## Create new items

When you first add a repeater to your page, it displays repeated items using the design and default values from its [item template](https://github.com/wix-incubator/wix-code-docs/pull/3381/Repeated%20Item%20Template.md). At this stage, no custom data is shown.

To display your own data, set the repeater’s `data` property to an array of objects, each with a unique `_id`. When you do this, the repeater creates new items for each object in the array.

> As each new item is created, the `onItemReady()` event handler runs. This is where you write code to update the elements inside each repeated item with the specific data you want to display, replacing the template's default values.

Reviewer: Let's not use "update" in our "create" section. Let's stick with "populate" as suggested above.

```suggestion
As each new item is created, the `onItemReady()` event handler runs. This is where you write code to populate the elements inside each repeated item with the specific data you want to display, replacing the template's default values.
```

> ### Example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example

Set a repeater with initial data. When the `addButton` is clicked, add another item to the repeater.
```

```javascript
let data = [
  { _id: "1", name: "Alice" },
  { _id: "2", name: "Bob" },
];

$w.onReady(function () {
  $w('#myRepeater').data = data;
  $w('#myRepeater').onItemReady(($item, itemData) => {
    $item('#nameText').text = itemData.name;
  });

  // Example: Add a new item when a button is clicked
  $w('#addButton').onClick(() => {
    // Create a new item with a unique _id
    const newItem = { _id: "3", name: "John" };
    data = [...data, newItem]; // Add the new item to the array
    $w('#myRepeater').data = data; // Update the repeater with the new data

>   });

Reviewer: I would love to have something here that would allow you to continually add stuff. We can't do that with names. What could we use that we could just generate. Or should we write it as if it's taking the name from an input element? In either case, I'd like to change this to first get the data from the repeater and not from the global `data` variable.

   $w('#myRepeater').onItemReady(($item, itemData) => {
    $item('#nameText').text = itemData.name;

> });

Reviewer: You don't need this again. Only once.

});
```

## Update existing items

> When you update a repeater's `data` property, repeated items with the same _id values as before won't automatically display updated property values. Simply reassigning the `data` property doesn't refresh what's shown for those items.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you update a repeater's `data` property, repeated items with the same `_id` values as before won't automatically populate the updated values into the elements of each repeated item. Simply reassigning the `data` property doesn't refresh what's shown for those items if the `_id` values don't change.
```

> To ensure that any changes in your data are reflected in the UI, use the repeater's `forEachItem()` or `forItems()` functions. These functions update the elements inside each repeated item, so that the displayed content always matches the latest data in your array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure that changes to your data are populated into the repeated elements, use the repeater's `forEachItem()` or `forItems()` methods. You can use these methods to update the elements inside each repeated item, so that the displayed content always matches the latest data in your array.
```

> ### Example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example

Set a repeater with initial data. When the `updateButton` is clicked, update an item in the repeater.
```

```javascript
const data = [
  { _id: "1", name: "Alice" },
  { _id: "2", name: "Bob" },

>   {_id: "3", name: "John"}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  { _id: "3", name: "John" }
```

Reviewer: Actually, you don't really need this 3rd object here.

];

$w.onReady(function () {
  $w('#myRepeater').data = data;
  $w('#myRepeater').onItemReady(($item, itemData) => {
    $item('#nameText').text = itemData.name;
  });
});

data[0].name = "Alicia"; // Changed from Alice to Alicia

  // Reassigning the data array alone will NOT update the repeated items:
$w("#myRepeater").data = data; // No visible change

  // To update the display, use forEachItem to manually refresh each element:
$w("#myRepeater").forEachItem(($item, itemData, index) => {
$item("#nameText").text = itemData.name; // This will now show "Alicia"

> });

Reviewer: Maybe put this in a button click handler like above. And the same comments as above about getting the data from the repeater first. Also, the indentation is off at the bottom.

```

## Remove items

When you want to remove an item from a repeater, set the repeater's `data` property to a new array that no longer includes the object with the `_id ` of the item you want to remove.

The repeater then checks which repeated items are represented in the new data array. For any repeated item whose `_id` is missing, the repeater removes the item.

As each item is removed, the `onItemRemoved()` event handler runs and the display reflects the repeater without those items.

> 

Reviewer: Forgot the example heading (and descriptive sentence).

```javascript
const data = [
  { _id: "1", name: "Alice" },
  { _id: "2", name: "Bob" },

>   {_id: "3", name: "John"}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  { _id: "3", name: "John" }
```

];

$w.onReady(function () {
  $w('#myRepeater').data = data;
  $w('#myRepeater').onItemReady(($item, itemData) => {
    $item('#nameText').text = itemData.name;
  });
});
// Remove the item with _id "2"
data = data.filter(item => item._id !== "2");
$w("#myRepeater").data = data; // The item for "Bob" is removed

> 

Reviewer: Again, let's do this in a button. And maybe do something more interesting like any item where the name is longer than 4 letters (if we stick with the name thing).

---
articleType: concept
---
# Repeaters: The Lifecycle of Repeated Items

> When you work with a repeater in code, it's important to understand how the items in the repeater are created, updated, and deleted. First, you need to know how each repeated item relates to the data that drives it.

Reviewer 2: Link to the main article on "repeater"

A repeater's data is stored as an array of objects, which you get or set using the repeater’s `data` property. Each object in this array must have a unique `_id` property that links the object to a specific repeated item in the repeater. The `_id` value can include only alphanumeric characters and hyphens (`-`). Besides `_id`, each object in the data array can include any other properties you need.

For example, a simple array of repeater data may look like this:

```javascript
[
  {
    "_id": "1", 
    "firstName": "John", 
    "lastName": "Doe", 
    "image": "http://someImageUrl/john.jpg"
  },
  {    
     "_id": "2", 
     "firstName": "Jane",
     "lastName": "Doe",
     "image": "http://someImageUrl/jane.jpg"
  }
]
```

> The repeater doesn't automatically bind data to the elements inside each repeated item. You control how to display data in those elements by using the `onItemReady()`, `onItemRemoved()`, `forItems()`, and `forEachItem()` callback functions.

Reviewer 2: "bind data" is another example of something we would normally spell out and explain what it means exactly, like "changes to the repeater's data aren't automatically reflected in it's repeated items."

For more information on these functions, see the [API Reference](https://www.wix.com/velo/reference/$w.Repeater.html).

> ## Supported IDEs

Reviewer 2: You can use repeaters in the following IDEs:

* IDE in the editor
* Wix IDE
* Local IDE

The following sections explain how items are created, updated, and removed throughout a typical repeater lifecycle.

## Create new items

> When you first add a repeater to your page, each repeated item uses the design and default values from the repeater's [item template](./Repeated%20Item%20Template.md). When you set the repeater's `data` property in your code and add items, `onItemReady()` runs for each new item and updates its elements with the specific data you provide, overriding the template values.

Reviewer 2: I think we have a policy to always use absolute links now. No relative links. Wix handles articles being moved and renamed in the menu using redirects, but I don't think it works with relative links so we avoid them.

## Update existing items

When you update a repeater's `data` property, repeated items with IDs that already exist in the data array don't change, even if you update other properties. To update the elements in those repeated items, use the `forEachItem()` or `forItems()` functions.

## Remove items

When you set a repeater's `data` property, the repeater removes any repeated items whose IDs are no longer in the data array. For each removed item, the `onItemRemoved()` event handler runs.

### Example

To demonstrate the full lifecycle of repeated items, consider the following simplified example. 

<div style="text-align:center">

![](https://d2x3xhvgiqkx42.cloudfront.net/12345678-1234-1234-1234-1234567890ab/dfff8cbb-ddcb-4376-8cae-3fedb2dd4458/2017/11/29/1c9e7e93-ef4c-44aa-a495-ae82d5c10a91.png)

</div>

> The example has the following page elements:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The page has the following page elements:
```

*   Three buttons:
    *   The **Add** button adds more items to the repeater.

>     *   The **Remove** button removes the added items from the repeater.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    *   The **Remove** button, which removes the added items from the repeater.
```

>     *   The **Update** button updates the first item in the repeater.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    *   The **Update** button, which updates the first item in the repeater.
```

*   A repeater where each repeated item in the repeater contains 2 text elements:
    *   The text element on the left shows the item's ID.
    *   The text element on the right shows the item's content.

> The example has the code shown below that:

Reviewer 2: The page has the following code:

*   Defines two static arrays of data that you will use for the repeater.
*   An `onReady()` function that:
    *   Sets the initial data of the repeater.
    *   Adds the event handlers that make the buttons work.

>     *   Adds the repeater `onItemReady()` and `onItemRemoved()` event handlers that run when new items are created and removed.

Reviewer 2: I would put this section after the code, and start with:

"The above code defines..."

  } );
} );
```
## Retrieve repeater item data when clicked
 
Each repeated item in a repeater has a [`Container`](https://www.wix.com/velo/reference/$w.Container.html) element that holds all of its repeated elements. To retrieve the data associated with a specific repeated item when you click it, create an `onClick` event handler for the item's `Container`. Depending on how you populate the repeater with data, you either use the connected dataset or the repeater's `data` array to retrieve the clicked item's data in the event handler.
 
 For a repeater populated by connecting it to a dataset:
 
  ```javascript
  $w.onReady( function () {
    $w("#repeatedContainer").onClick( (event) => {
      let $item = $w.at(event.context);
     let clickedItemData = $item("#myDataset").getCurrentItem();
   } );
  } );
  ```
 
 For a repeater populated by setting its [`data`](https://dev.wix.com/docs/velo/velo-only-apis/$w/repeater/data) property:
 
  ```javascript
  $w.onReady( function () {
    $w("#repeatedContainer").onClick( (event) => {
      const data = $w("#myRepeater").data;
      let clickedItemData = data.find(item => item._id === event.context.itemId);
    } );
  } );

>   ```

Reviewer 2: Add a see also section.
